[DIGITAL EFFECT]
>> A potential breakthrough
in the field of anti-aging.
Could pure oxygen lead
to the fountain of youth?
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Dr. Ed Park, author of
"The Telomere Miracle,"
explains how telomeres, aging
and stem cells could possibly
be affected by
oxygen treatments.
>> Every time a cell divides,
telomeres have to shorten.
And stem cells are
the kinds of cells
that have an enzyme
that can relate to them,
making them kind of immortal.
Even though they're
getting older,
they're getting older at a much
slower rate than the non STEM
cells.
What we do see, is an incidental
shortening of the telomeres,
and that reflects where they
came from, because their stem
cells are getting older.
So if we can have something
like breathing hyperbaric oxygen
and it shows up in the
blood cells at least,
the inference, the
hope, is that it
would show up in other cells.
>> A recent study out of Tel
Aviv University and published
in the journal, "Aging,"
claims promising results using
hyperbaric oxygen treatments to
lengthen telomeres and reduce
the accumulation of old
and malfunctioning cells
in the blood of test subjects.
In the study, 35 healthy
adults aged 64 and older
received 60 daily
hyperbaric oxygen treatments
over three months.
The hyperbaric oxygen
treatment sessions
included breathing 100%
oxygen by mask for 90 minutes,
with five-minute air
breaks every 20 minutes.
Blood samples from
the test subjects
showed an increase in
telomere length and a decrease
in senescent cells.
Dr. Park weighs
in on this study.
>> If you look at their study,
they look at two factors,
which are telomere
length and senescence.
What they showed was a
very impressive drop-off
in senescent cells, which
is old or damaged cells,
and an increase in
the telomere length.
And the nice thing
also, was at 30 days,
it was significant,
and at 60, even more.
Specifically, we'd
like to know perhaps
if they could look at
the epigenetic markers
where the gene is silenced.
Perhaps we could
look at other organs
where the telomeres in
other organs improved.
>> What is hyperbaric oxygen
treatment as it relates to this
study?
>> The oxygen we breathe from
the Earth's atmosphere is about
21%, mostly nitrogen. So
they can crank it up to 100%
dissolved oxygen at higher
than 1 atmospheric pressure.
But if this study can
be repeated, it's valid,
it suggests a
decrease in old cells.
>> How could this and other
studies about telomere length
help us fight
diseases like cancer?
>> When your telomeres shorten,
the next time a cell divides,
they don't separate properly,
which can lead to any number
of infinite mutations.
So you don't ever want those
telomeres to get that short.
So in the case of cancer,
you have a lot of mutations,
and yet somehow, the
surveillance and the suicide
mechanism is disabled.
So in the future, they'll
be able to say, oh, OK, you
have this type of cancer.
It's missing these genes,
for whatever the period is.
We'll introduce the
MRNA for those genes
and your cancer will be
able to execute itself.
So that's really
where I wish people
would go with the science.
>> What does the future hold
for studies like this regarding
telomere length, aging
slower, and living healthier?
>> Coming down the pike
hopefully, supplements,
certain senolytics hopefully
to kill off dead cells.
Maybe hyperbaric oxygen
could be a thing.
And maybe some of these
bespoke or custom MRNA
packages, not just for one
spike protein on one virus,
but we can have proteins to be
packaged in exosomes message
RNAs to help with
nerve regeneration
and other chronic illnesses.
So it's really an exciting time.
>> More study is needed,
but this may be another step
in the battle against
aging and disease.
What if something like
concentrated oxygen
could be the answer to
preventing and curing disease
in the future?
We'll be watching the science
and keeping an open mind.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."